NAME
    pip - Console application for running Perl 5 Installer (P5I) files

DESCRIPTION
    WARNING: THIS APPLICATION IS CONSIDERED EXPERIMENTAL. FEATURES MAY BE
    BROKEN OR SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!

    A Perl 5 Installer (P5I) file is a small script-like file that describes
    a set of distributions to install, and integrates the installation of
    these distributions with the CPAN installer.

    The pip ("Perl Installation Program") command is used to install the
    distributions described by the p5i script.

    The primary use of P5I files are for installing proprietary or non-CPAN
    software that may still require the installation of a number of
    distributions in order.

    It can also be used to ensure specific versions of CPAN modules are
    installed instead of the most current version.

    P5I files are also extensible, with the first line of the file
    specifying the name of the Perl class that implements the plan.

    For the moment, the class described at the top of the P5I file must be
    installed.

    The simple Module::Plan::Lite plan class is bundled with the main
    distribution, and additional types can be installed if needed.

USAGE
    The pip command is used to install a P5I file and in the canonical case
    is used as follows

      pip directory/myplan.p5i

    This command will load the plan file directory/myplan.p5i, create the
    plan, and then execute it.

    If only a directory name is given, pip will look for a default.p5i plan
    in the directory. Thus, all of the following are equivalent

      pip directory
      pip directory/
      pip directory/default.p5i

    If no target is provided at all, then the current directory will be
    used. Thus, the following are equivalent

      pip
      pip .
      pip default.p5i
      pip ./default.p5i

  Syntax of a plan file
    Initially, the only plan is available is the Module::Plan::Lite (MPL)
    plan.

    A typical MPL plan will look like the following

      # myplan.p5i
      Module::Plan::Lite
  
      Process-0.17.tar.gz
      YAML-Tiny-0.10.tar.gz

  Direct installation of a single file with -i or --install
    With the functionality available in pip, you can find that sometimes you
    don't even want to make a file at all, you just want to install a single
    tarball.

    The "-i" option lets you pass the name of a single file and it will
    treat it as an installer for that single file. For example, the
    following are equivalent.

      # Installing with the -i|--install option
      > ppi -i Process-0.17.tar.gz
      > ppi --install Process-0.17.tar.gz
  
      # Installing from the file as normal
      > pip ./default.p5i
  
      # myplan.p5i
      Module::Plan::Lite
  
      Process-0.17.tar.gz

    The "-i" option can be used with any single value supported by
    Module::Plan::Lite (see above).

SUPPORT
    This module is stored in an Open Repository at the following address.

    <http://svn.phase-n.com/svn/cpan/trunk/Module-Plan-Base>

    Write access to the repository is made available automatically to any
    published CPAN author, and to most other volunteers on request.

    If you are able to submit your bug report in the form of new (failing)
    unit tests, or can apply your fix directly instead of submitting a
    patch, you are strongly encouraged to do so. The author currently
    maintains over 100 modules and it may take some time to deal with
    non-Critical bug reports or patches.

    This will guarentee that your issue will be addressed in the next
    release of the module.

    If you cannot provide a direct test or fix, or don't have time to do so,
    then regular bug reports are still accepted and appreciated via the CPAN
    bug tracker.

    <http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Module-Plan-Base>

    For other issues, for commercial enhancement and support, or to have
    your write access enabled for the repository, contact the author at the
    email address above.

AUTHORS
    Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

SEE ALSO
    Module::Plan::Base, Module::Plan::Lite, Module::Plan

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2006 Adam Kennedy.

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

    The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
    with this module.

